---
layout: post
title:  "The Importance of Strong, Secure Passwords!"
date:   2020-09-03 12:52:45 -0700
categories: jekyll update
---
Unauthorized access is a potentially major problem for anyone who uses a computer or high-tech devices such as smartphones or tablets. The consequences for victims of these break-ins can include the loss of valuable data such as presentations, emails, and music. Victims may also have their bank account information, money, or even their identity stolen. Moreover, unauthorized users may use someone else's computer to break the law, which could put the victim in legal trouble. 

There are key points of password security that users must know in order to reduce the likelihood of a hacker cracking their password and thus gaining access to their device.

    Most importantly, passwords must be long and complex.
    Long and complex passwords require more effort and time for a hacker to guess.
    Passwords should contain at least ten characters and have a combination of characters such as commas, percent signs, and parentheses, as well as upper-case & lower-case letters and numbers.
    Users should never write down their passwords, as that makes it easier for the passwords to be stolen and used by someone else.
    Also, never use the same password for two or more devices, as hackers who break into one machine will try to use the same password to take control of others.


Importance of a Strong Password

One of the concerns that people often have when it comes to creating complex passwords is a fear of forgetting them, particularly when there are several to remember. Naturally, a person should try to think of something that will be easy for them to memorize. One way to do that is to turn a sentence or phrase into something that is not easily recognized by others. To do this, use the first letter of every word in the sentence, replacing certain words with numbers or symbols. For example, the word "for" may be replaced with the number 4 or the word "number" with the # symbol. With this method, a password such as "Save the number for later in the year" may read St#4LITY. 
